Ansible is a powerful, agentless automation tool that simplifies the management and configuration of systems.

Key Features of Ansible :
 1) Python Dependency - Ansible is written in Python and relies on Python libraries to run. 
 2) YAML for Writing Code - YAML allows you to define tasks in a simple, intuitive format, making it easy to read and write configurations
    Example:
    - name: Install Apache
      apt:
        name: apache2
        state: present
 3) Free and Open-Source : its source code is publicly available for anyone to inspect, modify, and contribute to.
 4) Agentless Architecture:  Ansible uses SSH  for communication with the target nodes.
 
Ansible Components :
 1) Control Node - The control node communicates with the target machines (or nodes) over SSH (or WinRM for Windows).

 2) Managed Nodes -  They can be any machines that are accessible over the network and do not need to have any special agents installed, as Ansible uses SSH to manage Linux-based nodes and WinRM for Windows nodes.

 3) Inventory file - This file can be static (defined manually) or dynamic (generated based on your environment). It lists the IP addresses or hostnames of the servers you want to manage.

 4) Playbooks -  It a YAML file that describes a set of tasks to be executed on the managed nodes. Playbooks allow you to automate complex workflows and configurations in an organized, modular way.
 5) Modules - Ansible comes with built-in modules that perform specific tasks .You can use these modules within your playbooks to automate actions on the managed nodes.
       e.g., installing packages, managing users, or handling files.

 6) Roles: Ansible roles allow you to organize playbooks into reusable, modular components, making it easier to structure your automation workflows.
 
Common Use Cases for Ansible
 1) Server Provisioning: Automate the creation and configuration of servers, including network configurations and software installations.
 2) Application Deployment: Automatically deploy applications to multiple servers or cloud instances, ensuring consistency.
 3)Configuration Management: Maintain consistent system configurations across your infrastructure, including setting up users, managing services, and installing software packages.
 4) Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD): Automate deployment pipelines, making it easier to integrate and deploy code to various environments.
 5) Cloud Infrastructure Management: Manage cloud resources (e.g., AWS, Azure, Google Cloud) and automate scaling, configuration, and provisioning.




